# Adaptable Standardized Methods Reporting (ASMR) for fieldwork studies

## ABSTRACT

Research in many areas, such as biology, ecology, and conservation, often depends heavily on fieldwork. However, while rigorous and standardized method reporting has become increasingly applied for laboratory procedures and data analysis, fieldwork method reporting remains comparatively vague and heterogenous, particularly in some systems such as the marine realm. For instance, a recent global systematic literature review analyzing 994 publications on mesophotic research found that the majority ofmost studies either did not employ standardized protocols and/or provided insufficient details in their methodological descriptions. To contribute to filling this gap, we propose the Adaptable Standardized Methods Reporting (ASMR), a reporting guidance framework for fieldwork studies that consists of a reporting checklist, a flow-chart showing ASMR integration with other established standards, and a metadata term list. The latter encompasses terms related to 1) sampling design, methods, and equipment; and 2) ecological context, e.g. habitat, substrate, geomorphology. ASMR terms can extend the Darwin Core Standard by providing more detailed information on fieldwork methods. ASMR and its compilation guidelines will also favor machine readability, and data homogenization by referring to established classification schemes. While the checklist applies to all environments, the current version of the metadata list was designed to cover only marine fieldwork activities; nevertheless, it can be refined through users feedback and adapted to better include other environments and methodologies. Moreover, it is expected that the research community will benefit from ASMR tools at different stages: documentation, revision, publishing, and data collation for synthesis research. Most importantly, ASMR will enhance methodological transparency, reproducibility, and comparability across marine studies, finally contributing to the adoption of standardized fieldwork protocols.

